[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SUE MORTER: Is it
possible to heal yourself
from an illness so debilitating
that Western medicine has
completely given up
on your treatment?
That was the case
with Donna Eden.
When she was young, Donna was
afflicted with tuberculosis,
MS, neuropathy, and many
autoimmune symptoms,
and she was given no option
for recovery by doctors.
That's when she
took it upon herself
to heal her body
with her own energy.
She now leads thousands of
others to heal themselves
and to teach her techniques
around the world.
Thank you so much for being
here with us today, Donna.
It's so amazing to have you.
And I'm so thrilled to
talk about the topics
that you talk about.
It is very near and dear
to my heart and my soul,
and I look forward
to digging into what
we get to share today.
>>DONNA EDEN: Thank you.
I'm really glad to be here, too.
>>SUE: Absolutely.
Now let's talk about you and
how this started for you.
I know that it was a personal
experience for you that
brought you right into this
aspect of life and living
and healing.
So tell us your story.
>>EDEN: Well, when I was 16,
my legs started giving out.
And nobody diagnosed it at that
time until I was in my 20's.
But it was getting
worse and worse.
And I was also
going into asthma.
And I was--
I couldn't eat foods that
were good for everybody else.
I couldn't eat things that
grew out of the ground.
I could not metabolize them.
And by the time I was
27, I had a heart attack.
And then I was trying
to find specialists
because I was getting more
and more, not walking at all.
And I had five
different specialists
say that I wasn't going to--
I wasn't going to make it.
And that one told me to
get my affairs in order
and find somebody to raise
my kids if I didn't want
my husband to pick somebody.
But that day, it
was very strange.
It was-- I felt like
lightning hit me,
and that, oh, I'm going to heal.
I knew it in an instant I
was going to heal myself.
>>SUE: So they're telling
you there's no way out.
>>EDEN: There is no way out.
>>SUE: And in that same instant,
you are having a revelation.
Something's happening for you.
>>EDEN: I knew I was
going to heal myself.
And I went home and I just
started experimenting.
And the first
experiment was just
putting one hand on my thigh
and one hand over my knee
and just holding them, and
it took about three minutes
before I could feel and see that
the energy was connecting up.
And it was over my
thighs and my quadriceps
that nothing was
happening anymore.
There was no energy movement.
So I couldn't walk, I couldn't
climb a step or anything.
But suddenly, I
could see, I could
feel that was connecting up.
>>SUE: So you didn't
know about energy flow
or you weren't educated
in that moment,
but you were just kind of
feeling your way into that?
Is that--
>>EDEN: I wasn't educated in it,
but I had always known energy.
I just, it never
occurred to me to--
I don't use it to heal.
I think all my life I could feel
the circuits when they were off
or when they were on.
>>SUE: So you're
laying on the couch,
you connect these circuits, you
feel energy moving, and then--
then what happened after that?
>>EDEN: Very next thing that
happened, I mean, I would--
I mean, energy on our
hands is electromagnetic,
and the energies in our
body is electromagnetic.
So I knew that
wherever I touched it,
something would happen.
And so that I could
move the energy,
I could maybe release it where
there was too much energy
someplace, I could--
I mean, the body already
knows how to heal.
And that's what I was really
getting in touch with.
And--
>>SUE: I'm sorry,
how old were you?
>>EDEN: I was in my late 20s.
>>SUE: 20s.
OK.
So you're like, you're
processing this, like for real.
And it's coming
together for you.
>>EDEN: And it was
exciting and thrilling.
And I did not get depressed
because I was on a journey.
It was like-- and I didn't
believe the doctors.
I just thought they didn't know.
And Western medicine at that
time, and I think even now,
is quick to admit that
autoimmune illnesses,
they don't have skills for.
They can maybe stop
something with a medication,
but they really can't heal
an autoimmune illness.
And an autoimmune illness is
really made for energy medicine
because it's the energy
has turned against you.
So you've just got to turn
that energy back around.
>>SUE: We have to
develop self-love
in a way that allows us to
be in an ownership position
to use this energy as
it was meant to be used.
It's supposed to be
following our consciousness,
but if our consciousness is
freaked out because we're
getting these
kinds of diagnoses,
that hey, your
days are numbered,
go home and get your
affairs in order, you know,
it's kind of hard to focus up.
But in my clinic, I recognize
that there were people
who were given prognoses like
this, and they would come in
and we would have a conversation
like this, and 20 years later,
30 years later, they were
bringing their grandkids by
to show me how life turned out.
And this, this is what
we want people to know.
We want people to know
there's an alternative.
In that situation
with you, how long
did it take that healing
to really unfold?
>>EDEN: As you
said, in increments.
The first thing I
found out is that I
had been allergic to wheat
and grains all my life.
Suddenly, I was eating
my first sandwich.
I never was able to eat a
sandwich without getting very--
>>SUE: Your circuits
were connecting.
>>EDEN: Yes.
>>SUE: Your system was working.
You're eating a sandwich.
>>EDEN: I'm eating a sandwich.
And it was just thrilling.
And then after that,
it was vegetables
I could suddenly eat.
But before when I was sick,
I could only eat red meat.
And that's hard for
people to grasp,
but I believe it was because
it was such a thick protein.
And my body needed--
>>SUE: Slow release
into the system.
>>EDEN: Yes A slow
release into the system.
So it took much longer for
fruit, to be able to eat fruit.
>>SUE: High vibration, sends
out cleansing too much,
your system overreacts.
>>EDEN: So my body
was telling me
all along the way
what was working.
And I would really
stay with that
until that was a bit perfected.
>>SUE: You were listening.
>>EDEN: I was listening.
I was listening.
And in our culture, nobody
was taught how to listen.
I mean, when people say, well,
just listen to your body,
nobody's been taught
how to listen.
And I am sure our ancestors had
to listen in order to survive.
And we're all here today
because they listened.
And now we've got
healing in our DNA.
And we've got healing.
Again, our body
knows how to do this.
But we've got to get in touch
because we live in a world we
didn't evolve to live in.
The world we evolved
for was natural.
And so it was much easier
to be in sync and to hear.
And now, every square
inch of our atmosphere
is filled with man-made
electromagnetic energies.
And we have additives in
our food, and we have--
I mean, our food is
packaged in plastic.
And the thing is, that's
not going to go away.
We have got to learn
how to be in this world.
And so what energy medicine
does is teaches you
how to be here in this world and
not let those energies totally
overwhelm our systems.
>>SUE: I look at it like
we've set up quite an obstacle
course for ourselves to
cause evolution consciously.
We have to make choices.
We have to decide.
We have to pick
and choose and use
our awareness, or intelligence
in a way that is serving this.
But first, we have to connect
like what you have done.
You know, what we're
doing is teaching people
how to connect into our
system and get these energy
systems working properly
and talking to each other,
and allowing our whole
body to operate the way
it was designed to operate.
>>EDEN: The way it was designed.
We were designed this way.
And so it's very wonderful to
reclaim our healing abilities,
and that our body is
on our side, and--
>>SUE: It's all one thing.
>>EDEN: It's all one thing.
>>SUE: Now I know you work with
several systems in particular.
You break it down.
The whole energy system
of the body is massive,
and you're breaking it down
into various aspects of study.
Can you share this with us?
>>EDEN: We teach, in our
program, nine major energy
systems.
So the meridians that
flow through your body
and govern your organs, with
the chakra system that is, yeah,
they're like energy stations.
And they have seven
layers on each chakra,
and what you get at
each level is different.
And sometimes you can go way
back and retrieve memories.
And we work with the
radiant circuits, which is--
you know, people are so
stressed out in our culture.
And so there is an
energy system that
just doesn't have the priority
because we are still governed
by that fight or flight
or freeze response
from millions of years ago.
We have not changed
how we react to stress.
But underneath that system
of fight, flight, or freeze
is the radiant
circuits, which people
have a lot more joy
in them that they
aren't often able to access.
So we teach how to
connect those circuitries
of the radiant circuits.
>>SUE: That's like that
unifying presence, that
oneness energy that is holding
the space for all the rest
of this stuff to take place.
>>EDEN: That's exactly right.
>>SUE: And when we drop in
on it with our awareness,
it has an opportunity to
become more robust, which
allows our natural healing
ability to be recognized again
and come forward.
And then you work with
some others as well.
>>EDEN: Let me just say
one more thing about the--
I'm glad you just said what you
said about the radiant circuits
because they're not
just about your joy,
but it's about being able to
drop very deep into your body.
It helps for that.
Whatever psychic awareness
you have, it can turn that on.
Your intuition.
All of those things
can be turned on
with the radiant circuits.
So the fight, flight,
or freeze response
is mostly governed
by triple warmer.
It is a meridian, but it
is also a radiant circuit.
It is pervasive in your body
because immediately when
stress turns on, it turns on.
Blood leaves your forebrain to
go into your body for the fight
or flight response, and you
don't have all your marbles
up in your head anymore to
be able to think it through.
But that's what we
do in our culture,
we try to think it through,
and you know, it doesn't work.
So that one is a
powerful one that I
feel we really need to evolve
at this time in our culture.
We have to.
We have to because that's
why people are getting
so many autoimmune illnesses,
and cancers, and everything,
because those stress responses
and stress chemicals,
stress hormones just
flood our bodies.
And it not only gets
you well and healthy, it
makes life so wonderful when
that is not there pervasively.
>>SUE: Yeah, it's
like we don't know
who we are unless
we're fighting a fight
or struggling over something.
And really, if we
want to be preventive,
we have to be operating
as this creative essence,
this pure presence.
And the more we land our
consciousness on that,
the more it settles the
system automatically
so we don't have to go
chasing all the symptoms.
>>EDEN: Right.
Right.
That was said beautifully.
>>SUE: It's so fun
to talk with you.
I'm having such a fabulous time.
I know that we have a guest
on the show that is someone
that you've done work
with, that you've
shared your healing principles
and practices with her.
She's had a healing
story of her own.
And so we're going
to bring her in.
>>EDEN: OK, wonderful.
>>SUE: And I look
forward to this.
So we're going to speak
with Dianne Faure.
Welcome, Dianne.
>>DIANNE FAURE: Thank you.
It's an honor to be here.
>>SUE: So tell us your story.
Tell us a little
bit about how you've
come to be where you are.
>>DIANNE FAURE: Well,
as a young adult,
I suffered from
chronic back pain
and IBS and TMJ and allergies.
And I just sort
of lived with it,
and it became chronically
worse over time.
I ended up having three
children and with the birth
of each of my
children, my back pain
became progressively worse.
I happen to be
married to a doctor,
so I would just sort of
pick up whatever he had been
seeing in the office that day.
So I was having chronic
colds or sinusitis,
I was always on one medication
or off a medication.
And this just sort of
became a way of life for me.
After the birth
of my third child,
I was unable to actually
physically walk.
I had to manually move
my leg to go forward.
And so I ended up
having back surgery.
And after the
surgery, I could walk,
but I had excruciating pain
down the sides of my legs
and no one could
tell me what it was.
So I did PT for a year, water
therapy, nothing was working.
And so I did research
and discovered about 90%
of people with back
pain benefit from yoga.
So I started doing yoga,
which allowed me then
to really lead a normal life.
I was prior to that time
pushing a baby carriage
and walking with a cane.
So I was able to sort of
live a somewhat normal life.
I was one of these people that
would carry a pillow around
with them and I had a little
box of all my medications
whenever I traveled.
And so I managed to
sort of hobble along,
and then I hit menopause.
And when I hit menopause,
everything just sort of
exploded.
And I developed hypothyroidism,
my hair was falling out
in gobs, I was having chronic
insomnia to the point where
I would be afraid to
go to sleep at night
because I didn't know how
long that was going to take.
Sometimes I was up all night.
And as soon as I was putting
my foot out on the floor
in the morning, I'd
have shooting pain
throughout all my joints.
And that really got my attention
because I was like, wow,
I'm 53 years old, what am
I going to be at 63 or 73?
So I was really concerned.
>>SUE: So you--
I am just amazed at
the number of things
that started unfolding for
you in a not so pleasant way.
Yes?
And you're an attorney, right?
Were you able to work?
Were you able to
go and practice?
>>FAURE: So once
my children grew up
and I was trying to get back
into the practice full-time
of law again, but I was unable
to really even walk up stairs.
And I developed what looked
to be rheumatoid arthritis.
I started to develop chronic
allergies to any medications.
I was starting to break out in
what looked like skin lupus.
And so I really was
looking for something
that I could do to
myself, I wouldn't
need to go get fixed by someone,
and something that would allow
me to live a normal life and
not just get worse as I age,
but actually vibrant as I age.
So I was looking on
YouTube for a yoga video
when I came across, somehow,
Donna's video popped up.
And I was looking, watching
her, and I didn't understand
a word she was talking about,
but she had all this energy
and I didn't have
any energy at all.
So I was really impressed.
I was so desperate to try to get
rid of these issues that I had,
I went on her website
and discovered
that she was talking in New
Jersey the next weekend.
So I said to my husband, I'm
like, we're getting in the car,
we're going to New Jersey,
I need to see this woman.
So by the end of that weekend,
I found out the first thing
that I could do to try
to help my back pain.
So within a couple
days, I was pain free.
And that really impressed me.
So then I decided, I
need to keep going.
So I went down to Phoenix
for the next couple years--
and I never had any intention
of becoming a practitioner.
I was on what was called the
wellness track at that time.
I just wanted to get better.
And so I ended up going through
that program with Donna.
And every situation, even
my hypothyroidism, resolved.
My RA, Rheumatoid
Arthritis, and my lupus
still shows up in my blood, but
I have no symptoms whatsoever.
All my other issues resolved,
and I was just amazed.
I was just so amazed that I
ended up going back to work.
I practiced law for
another couple years.
And then I decided that
this work was so important
and people needed
to know about this.
And so my husband,
the doctor, would say,
you know, I've got this
patient, we've tried everything,
we've done all the
tests and they're
just not getting better,
would you at least see them?
And in the beginning
I was like, no,
because I was afraid I would
get whatever they had since I
had always been so sick.
But little by little, I
started to see clients.
And that's really how I started.
And that's about 10
years ago, and now I
have a full-time practice.
And I'm truly grateful
to Donna in so many ways.
>>SUE: Yes.
So your husband,
the medical doctor,
got on board with
what you were doing.
What was his opinion
prior to this?
What was he thinking?
What was his opinion
about what to do?
What was happening there?
>>FAURE: Well, so initially, he
probably wasn't that impressed
and thought it might have
been a little woo-woo
But I was able to convince
him to come down to Phoenix
and we did the certification
program together.
And so by the end of that
certification program,
he understood then when
he saw a patient that
had something here
on their body,
well, that corresponds
to lung meridian.
So he was able to implement
and integrate that
into his practice.
>>SUE: Yes.
And that's so often the
case, that once someone
understands that there's
real science behind this
and that there is a
system that we can follow,
that there are systems
to all of this,
then it becomes acceptable.
And it's so important
for our viewers
to recognize that it isn't
the woo-woo that it used
to be considered years ago.
It's a new day.
And obviously, it's
worked for you.
Specifically, can you share
what techniques worked for you
regarding Donna's practices?
>>FAURE: So with respect
to the back pain,
what I love about Eden
Energy Medicine is I call it
two-for-one or three-for-one.
I actually was
working with something
called large intestine
neuro lymphatics, which
are reflex points along
the sides of the legs.
And that actually corresponds
to the L4, L5 on the back.
And that was actually why my
back pain was creating the pain
down the sides of my leg that no
one could understand or explain
for me.
So once I learned how to work
with that energy on the sides
of my legs, it actually
benefited my large intestine
as well.
So I was able to cure two
things at the same time, which
is pretty amazing.
>>SUE: Yes.
And this is what
people need to know
is that when the energy is
blocked, a variety of symptoms
will show up.
And we feel like
we're falling apart
but it's really only
like one thing that's
going on in a particular area.
And you tapped into that and
made a tremendous difference
for yourself.
>>FAURE: Absolutely.
Yeah.
It's fantastic.
Most of the clients that
walk through my door,
I've sort of been
in their shoes.
So I understand what
they're experiencing,
and I just see myself as
more just on the same path
but a little bit
further down the lane.
>>SUE: And helping each
other along that path.
>>FAURE: Helping
each other along.
Exactly.
>>SUE: Yes.
Thank you, Dianne, so much
for being with us today.
>>EDEN: Thank you, Dianne.
>>SUE: It's wonderful.
Yes, it's wonderful to share and
to hear about your successes.
All the best to you.
Keep helping people.
>>FAURE: Thanks.
>>SUE: OK.
>>EDEN: Keep it up.
>>SUE: So Donna, when
Dianne came to you,
what did you see
needed to happen?
>>EDEN: Well, I saw that her
energies were not crossing over
at all, which means that,
well, human beings were meant
to have energy from one
side of the body cross
over to the other
side and vice versa.
The cross crawl,
things like that.
>>SUE: Cross crawl, yes.
>>EDEN: But it wasn't
happening with her.
Her energies were going
straight up and down.
So I knew that there was going
to be, yes, definite direction
for her back.
But I knew that she was going
to have to straighten out
her energy so that they could
make that-- those circuitries
could connect.
>>SUE: And what is the role of
the environment, would you say,
on our body's ability to
adapt and on our energy
system itself?
>>EDEN: It's very big.
Back in the '90s, after I'd had
years and years of being very
well, I was shocked to be sort
of attacked by the environment.
I got what I call at that
time were electromagnetics.
But I now know that
they were EMFs,
electromagnetic frequencies.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Yes, yes.
But I really got it, to
the point that my aura got
totally frayed.
I didn't have an aura left.
So I could pick up anything and
everything that everybody had.
I knew what was
going on in them.
It was like there was no
separation from my body
to their body.
And it was really debilitating.
But at nighttime, when
I'd lay in my bed,
energy would come
up from the earth.
And if I wasn't out of bed
by 3:00 in the morning,
I was utterly stiff and
I couldn't use my hands.
I couldn't-- so I just
had to figure it out.
I literally-- how I began
to figure it out was I went
and started staying in
other people's houses.
I stayed in hotels.
I tried to find out, what
it happening everywhere?
Was this just me?
And again, I mean, I
knew my aura was gone.
And I knew you couldn't
live a healthy life
with your aura gone.
But I didn't know how
to get my aura back.
And we actually called a guy,
who his job was with NASA,
his job was to make sure that
astronauts were protected
in their vessels because there
was so much electromagnetic
going on in there.
And he had retired and lived in
the town nearby, and he came by
and he said I was
one of the worst--
maybe I was the worst
case he'd ever seen,
because I was picking up
radio frequencies in my teeth
and I mean, I was--
and it turns out that we lived--
the house that we
lived in, they had
to divert a creek to be
able to build a house there.
But the underground
river was still there,
so it was coming up through all
of the circuitry in the house.
I was really picking it up.
So it took me time to
figure that one out.
And I started working
with magnets, actually,
to turn the circuitry
around, and tape magnets
on the bottom of my feet
and the bottom of my hands
until I began to
build an aura again
and I began to work with
the field around me.
>>SUE: Do you still use
magnets in your therapies
or recommend them for people?
>>EDEN: You know, it's about
the only thing that I will do
at times, when somebody--
I will use it as
homework very often.
When somebody is
in really bad shape
and they have something
so debilitating in them,
we could put the magnet
in the right place,
or I could teach them
to twirl the magnet out
into their field, or
whatever it is they need.
It's just like, and it's
not a very strong magnet.
It's a very weak magnet.
But it just extends
your energy so
that if your energy
has gotten too frail,
you can extend your energy
a little bit with a magnet.
>>SUE: Yeah.
As people come into their
bodies with their consciousness
and they ground
themselves, their energy
becomes more robust,
more quickly, too.
So it has this magnetic
pull from the earth
that we're utilizing
to enhance this.
And so many, many
things that we can
do to start to enhance this.
And it's so
important that people
know that there are techniques
that they can learn that they
can start to get their energy
flowing in their system
and enhance the robustness
of this auric field, which
is the bio field
that we talk about.
It's the energy field
that builds our system.
And it's designed to run and
heal our system all the time.
>>EDEN: Yes, and it will affect
their consciousness, I mean.
And so one feeds the other.
>>SUE: Yes, back
and forth, that we
can choose things consciously
to enhance the field.
And when the field enhances,
it elevates our consciousness.
And then we can do it
even more and it just
keeps building on itself.
Living in this world
that we're living in
with all these
external influences,
once you're hooking someone up
with their circuits in the ways
that you are moving the
energy, again, I guess,
is what do you feel is
happening with Wi-Fi and EMFs
in our externalized world?
What do we need to do?
>>EDEN: Well, your body has
to deal with all of that.
So you're being confronted
with that energy sometime
coming right into your
body all the time.
And people don't know it,
but they might know that--
they might say, I felt so good
and then suddenly, I didn't.
I don't know why.
Nothing was going on.
Well, energy was going on
that was affecting their body.
So what I teach is something
called a daily routine.
It takes six or seven minutes,
that helps just straighten out
your energy, helps the
energies cross over,
hooks up the certain
things that you
want hooked up because they
will affect everything.
And when you've given six or
seven minutes a day to that,
and maybe you'll need
it to do it again
at another time in
the day, but you help
the circuitry stay connected.
And then you can do
more individual things,
like Dianne needed, you know,
something more individual,
like the lymphatic
points on her legs.
So there's many things
that can be very specific.
But if you get all of
the systems connected up,
it affects your circuitry and
your mind and everything just
starts working.
>>SUE: Maybe you
can show us some
of those things at some point
today in our conversation?
>>EDEN: Oh, god, I'd love to.
I would love to.
>>SUE: Fabulous.
I look forward to that.
In the near future,
in the next 10 years,
let's say, what do you
think the role of energy
medicine versus
antibiotics, medications,
these kind of symptom relieving
remedies that we're pursuing,
what's going to happen here?
And what would you
like to see happen?
>>EDEN: Well, I really
believe that Western medicine
and energy medicine
are going to start
walking more hand-in-hand.
And I think they have to.
Even in Western medicine, I
mean, you see things, I mean,
even an MRI machine is a lot of
magnets and affects the energy.
So there are things that Western
medicine has started to use.
But because they
have so little time,
I actually think they're going
to begin to expand their time
to give patients more energy.
>>SUE: I completely agree.
And I know that the
patients are, just
like patients started asking
for supplementation instead
of medications, patients
are also asking for,
what can I do at home?
And that, you know, it kind of
invites our medical community
to lean into some of these more
natural preventive measures.
I know that you have
specific approaches
to testing this
energy and noticing
how it's flowing with
someone and evaluating
what needs to happen
first, second, and third.
So before we dive
into some of that,
can you just
explain a little bit
about what is energy testing,
so that our viewers can
kind of, you know,
catch up, make sure
that they're coming along
and know that we're all
on the same page.
And what's happening
there when we're
doing this energy testing?
>>EDEN: Well, energy
testing allows you--
it's kind of like a
natural biofeedback tool.
You're not testing-- and a long
time ago, I changed the name
for myself from muscle testing.
Because I knew you
weren't testing
the strength of the muscle.
You're testing how is
energy flowing in the body.
And then over time,
it got more and more
how the energy was flowing.
But you can really
get instant feedback
about what's happening in
your body in a particular area
and what is needed,
and you can also
see that you can
shift the energy
and that a person who has never
done this before in their life
can do what I'm going to do
with you in fixing something.
Anybody can do it.
>>SUE: Excellent.
>>EDEN: It's our birthright.
>>SUE: Yeah.
Just to differentiate with
muscle testing versus energy
testing, we're kind of
doing the same thing.
But it's a mindset
and it's an awareness
that we want to realize
that the muscle can only
be as strong as it can
be, if the juice is
coming to it to make it do
what it's supposed to do.
So we're testing to see if
the juice is coming here.
Because we know
the muscle works.
You can pick up a suitcase or
a plate out of the dishwasher.
The muscles are working.
But how efficiently,
how effectively,
how comprehensively is the
juice coming to that muscle
so that it does what it's
supposed to do instantly,
when it's supposed to do it.
Am I tracking with you?
>>EDEN: Exactly.
>>SUE: OK.
Excellent.
So just one more question
before we dive in.
We know that
there's a difference
between our consciousness
and our subconsciousness
and that healing happens not
just in our conscious mind
but in the subconsciousness
our whole being.
Otherwise, we would
just consciously decide,
I'm going to be well, my back's
going to be fine, my necks,
my allergies are just
going to go away.
And it would, poof,
it would be gone.
So we know there's something
else going on there.
And that's what we're doing
for, just for the viewers
to understand that what
we're doing is saying,
there's more to the picture and
we also have access to that,
too.
So even though
it's subconscious,
we can start to work with it.
And my understanding of muscle
testing and energy testing
is that that's exactly
what we're doing.
We're able to read what's
happening at the subconscious
level and have access.
So can you just speak
a little bit to that?
>>EDEN: Yes.
Absolutely.
I mean, subconsciously people
are carrying around programs,
also, you know, of
negativity or of what
they feel about
themselves or their ideas
about different things.
They're carrying
all of that around.
And often, when
they think that they
should be able to get well
or not think that anymore,
well, their conscious
mind can't always
do that, because it is not
is as available to them
as their subconscious mind.
So that's an
important realization,
I think, for people to know,
that you can work with both
to affect your health
and your vitality
and your aliveness and
your positive outlook
and everything.
But you often can't just snap
out of something in your mind.
You can't do it.
You've got to then start
programming it differently.
>>SUE: Yeah.
So we're kind of
sneaking in the backdoor
and showing the
system how to be OK.
And the mind is kind
of the last to know.
It's like, oh, it turns
out, I feel better.
And so we're working at it from
both directions, front door
and back door.
>>EDEN: Yes.
And I had my practice--
I had a practice for,
I don't know, 23 years.
And I loved it when
a skeptic would
come who really didn't believe
it was going to happen to him.
So his mind could be set that
this isn't going to happen.
And in fact, in my
practice I had it
that nobody had to pay
me if it didn't work.
And they always paid.
>>SUE: Thank goodness it worked.
>>EDEN: Because it worked.
Because it worked.
>>SUE: Beautiful.
>>EDEN: But I also
know that the mind
is in every cell in your body.
In every place, in
every energy system,
the mind travels so that
you might think it's just up
in here, but it isn't.
And so you can be
reached in other ways.
>>SUE: Yes.
This is this standing energy
that we're speaking about,
that our consciousness
is everywhere.
And it's a matter of
our mind connecting
to the deep true consciousness,
the deep, true conscious being
that we are.
Instead of being all scattered
and worrying about this
and being off on other stories,
consciously or subconsciously,
we're teaching people to
come home to yourself.
Let's open up the trap
door between the conscious
and the subconscious
that got slammed
shut in those moments of fight
or flight, those moments that
were overwhelming to us.
It slams down.
And the last message that
got through was, emergency.
So we've been acting on
this emergency ever since.
>>EDEN: That's right.
>>SUE: We're opening
that up and saying,
you know what, turns out the
war is over, you know, let's
all exhale.
Let's have a better life.
So would you mind
demonstrating on me?
>>EDEN: Ah, love to, yes.
>>SUE: OK.
Fabulous.
Let's do this.
All right.
What do you need?
>>EDEN: Well, I think I
would love to just show you,
everyone, how electromagnetic
our energies are.
So I'm going to
energy test you, OK?
And this is a great
biofeedback tool.
I'm just going to push down.
And you're strong.
She's very strong.
So I'm going to walk back here.
And I'm going to--
I won't tell you what I'm doing.
>>SUE: OK, just do your things.
>>EDEN: I don't want
to influence you.
OK.
But I'll tell you afterwards.
I'm just going to go like this.
OK?
Now put your arm up again.
>>SUE:
[MURRR NOISE AND LAUGHTER]..
>>EDEN: So what I did was I
traced a meridian backwards.
And it'll happen for everybody.
Because the energies on your
hands are electromagnetic
and the energy on the
meridian is electromagnetic.
So now I'm going to see if
we can give it back to her.
>>SUE: Yeah, please do.
>>EDEN: OK.
And I do not have to touch her.
I could just trace in the field.
Truth is, I could
stand way back.
Because you've got
a very big aura,
so I could be way back
on the edge of your aura.
I don't know how
far back I can walk.
But I'm going to--
>>SUE: We get it, though.
It just keeps going.
>>EDEN: It keeps going.
>>SUE: Awesome.
>>EDEN: But auras
are influenced.
We are influenced by
other people's energies.
>>SUE: You bet.
You bet we are.
>>EDEN: And so
that's what that was.
>>SUE: Excellent.
>>EDEN: Would you like--
>>SUE: So this is just showing
people that energy is flowing,
and it has an impact
on us how it's flowing.
And I could probably do things--
at least I know in my own study
that I could do things that
would weaken my own aura,
like doubt myself or
be mad at something
or carry something around,
that kind of stuff.
>>EDEN: Absolutely.
>>SUE: Has the same effect.
>>EDEN: Yes, yes.
But it's also important
to know that other things
in our environment
can affect us,
like going into a room
that didn't feel so good.
Any of those things.
But you can get your own
energy back at any time.
>>SUE: And you're
going to show us how.
>>EDEN: OK.
So here, first we're going to
see if you're nice and strong.
You are.
So I'm just going
to smash your nose.
>>SUE: A nose job.
I need a nose job, is that
what you're telling me?
>>EDEN: But did you notice
you lost your energy?
Well, there is an energy
governing meridian
that goes up your back, over
your head, over your nose,
and then connects at
the back of your throat
with central meridian
that goes up this way.
Well, you're not connected.
>>SUE: Governing this.
>>EDEN: Yeah, governing
and central connect.
And you're not connected.
And that's an easy
way to find out.
But I would love to
show something else.
So I'm going to turn you, OK?
And I'm touching-- I'm going
to touch right at her waist,
in the middle of her spine.
And she loses her energy.
This is called
energy localizing.
I'm just going to the place
to see if the energy is
going up or not.
Now she's got phenomenal energy.
But this can affect
her a little bit.
Because you want these two
energies, two meridians,
central and governing.
And she starts-- oh, shoot.
Once you get to
her head, she's--
>>SUE: My crown chakra
knows what it's doing.
>>EDEN: Yeah, her crown chakra.
OK.
So this is so good.
Everybody can do this so easily.
But if you put one finger
in your belly button,
one finger at your third eye.
>>SUE: Does it
matter which finger?
>>EDEN: No.
I tend to use my middle.
But no, whichever
feels right to you.
And the other at the third eye.
Push in and pull them both up.
Yeah.
And it may make you breathe,
and that would be good
if you did breathe.
This kind of pulls you together.
[INHALING AND EXHALING]
OK.
And you usually know
when you're done.
It usually takes--
>>SUE: Yeah, I can feel it.
>>EDEN: Yeah.
So now I'm going to
smash your nose again.
Waap.
I know she's very strong.
>>SUE: Can't touch this.
>>EDEN: And I'm going to
touch at her spine again.
She's strong.
And what that means,
it's more than governing
and central are connected
at the back of her throat.
It means that she's now
pumping up cerebrospinal fluid.
So it's very, very good for
everything in your body.
And it's very good for
your nervous system.
It's very good for
And while you're doing
this interview, I mean,
everything was working very
well up here in your head.
But if you were then
to get up afterwards
and you want to go
skate or something,
you wouldn't be
coordinated as much.
Because the energy
was all up in here.
>>SUE: Right.
Perfect.
>>EDEN: And this
is also very good,
as I said, for the
nervous system.
If anyone has seizures, I mean,
this will pull them right out
of a seizure.
It's that good.
>>SUE: Yeah.
Grounds us.
Pulls us right back in,
connects up the circuits.
>>EDEN: I tend to go into body--
I mean, different
parts of me, you know,
where suddenly I'm
not pulled together.
And I'll just immediately
hook up, and I'm fine again.
>>SUE: Yes.
I'm back.
>>EDEN: I'm back.
>>SUE: Fabulous.
So are you intuiting anything
when you're doing this?
Or are you just-- you're just--
you're doing the energy testing,
you know the process that we do
next, and then do
that, and boom, it's--
and my question comes
from, anyone can do this?
>>EDEN: Anyone.
>>SUE: Anyone can do this.
>>EDEN: Anyone can do this.
>>SUE: It's a system that they
can follow and do with others.
>>EDEN: Yes, yes.
When I had my practice, I
often had families come in.
And little tiny children can
learn how to energy test.
And the parents can learn
how to energy test kids.
They don't have to push
with all their might,
because it isn't a muscle test.
But they can, with a
child, you can acclimate
to whatever is their strength.
Like you wouldn't have to push
a wall with all your might
to know it's going to stand.
So you start getting
that sensitivity.
And energy testing in itself
begins to build a sensitivity.
>>SUE: Right.
It's circuitry, right?
We build it just like we
learn how to drive a car
or learn how to roller
skate, as you say.
We develop the ability
to sense and feel
how to work with these
energies in just the right way
that we get the feedback
that we're looking for.
There's a communication system
that's trying to communicate,
and we haven't been trained at
all to pay any attention to it.
>>EDEN: No, and I
think, I mean, energy
is the language
your body speaks.
And it's like, it's a
wonderful language to learn.
And it will make
you much, much more
functionally
beautiful in this life
if your energies are
all working well.
>>SUE: Yes.
So what about sustainability?
So we connect up this circuit
that was short circuiting.
Does it last?
Do you address cause and
how to keep it happening?
>>EDEN: That's such a
good, good question.
Everybody's going to come to
me or some other practitioner
with a different place that
they are in their lives.
And some people have never
done anything for themselves
and maybe it won't
hold very long.
And if it doesn't
hold very long,
you don't want to
go into despair.
You want to say, oh,
I'm going to fix that.
I'm going to make
that start holding.
And when you do that and
do whatever technique
it is that will help you,
it will get stronger,
the habit will build, your body
will not fall apart as easily.
You just get better and better.
So it's something-- it's like
we have some pretty bad habits
in our bodies right now.
And this is building new habits.
And you will like aging.
You will like aging.
And that's one of
the best things
I like to tell people, to
know that your are empowered.
>>SUE: So I know that you
have your daily routine
that you spoke about.
Would you mind
sharing that with us--
>>EDEN: No.
>>SUE: --and teaching the world
what you recommend for 10 or 11
minutes a day, did you say?
>>EDEN: OK, OK.
One of the first
things you want to do
is you want to know that your
energies are crossing over.
So without anybody
energy testing you,
you can just start
building it into the habit.
Even if you've got it a little
bit, you can make it better.
And that is put one
hand on your shoulder.
Push in hard and drag it
across to the opposite hip.
And now go to the other side.
And just push in hard
and drag it across.
A lot of people will tell me
that they can begin to feel it.
You do it several times.
If you've got anybody
in your family who
will do it on your back,
let them do it on your back,
and cross that energy
over and build that habit.
The next thing to do is,
hook up, like you just did.
Because often when you
wake up in the morning,
you might not be
all pulled together.
But this will pull you together.
>>SUE: So the first ones
impacting the primitive brain,
the medulla, where
synapses cross over.
>>EDEN: Yes.
>>SUE: This one is
connecting the diaphragm
and the center, the third
eye, all of these things
are coming together.
>>EDEN: Everything is connected.
And it also, when
you connect up,
these are not just
two meridians.
You create the microcosmic
orbit that goes
around your body in both ways.
And suddenly, your aura
is impacted so that you're
just more protected in the day.
So that's a really good one.
>>SUE: Real present.
So we're crossing over?
>>EDEN: Right.
>>SUE: And then we're
hooking up again?
>>EDEN: Yep.
>>SUE: Then what?
>>EDEN: We're going
to do the four thumps.
>>SUE: OK.
>>EDEN: The first one, start
tapping on your cheekbones
here.
What this does, this is the
beginning of the stomach
meridian, and it
pulses the energy
that goes all the
way down your body
and connects you
to planet Earth.
So then you're more
available for energy
to come up and receive
some of that great energy.
And so that's the first one.
The second one is on K-27.
This is the 27th point.
It's right underneath
the collarbone.
And I'm not going to tap
it so much on my chest,
but you really
tap it right there
underneath the collarbone.
And K-27 is the 27th
point on kidney meridian.
And it's a juncture point.
So it turns all energy around
that's going backwards.
>>SUE: We got it.
>>EDEN: Yeah.
And the next one I'm
really not going to tap.
But you want to tap your chest
right there, your thymus.
>>SUE: Now the reason
you're not tapping
it is because of a microphone.
>>EDEN: I've got a
microphone there.
>>SUE: And we don't want
to hurt everybody's ears.
But you really do tap it
when you're tapping it.
>>EDEN: You tap it.
But think of Tarzan.
>>SUE: So it's like thumping.
>>EDEN: Yeah.
You know how Tarzan thumps
there before he ever
swings on the vine?
You want to thump like that.
And the last one is just
a rib below your bra line.
>>SUE: And the guys
and their bras?
What do they do?
>>EDEN: You've got to imagine.
>>SUE: OK.
All right.
>>EDEN: And then you
thump right there.
These are--
>>SUE: Just kind of
digging in with your thumb?
>>EDEN: Yes.
And these are really important.
Now, see.
OK, I'll just tell you.
You start being able to
read your body better.
I got chills on my legs when
I did it, chills on my arms,
which means I needed this one.
I mean, we all are
needing different things
at different times.
And that's on
spleen meridian that
governs how you're metabolizing
food or electromagnetics,
whatever it is.
How are you metabolizing it?
Is your body able to
adapt or throw it off?
So that one is a
really important one.
>>SUE: Spleen is so important.
And it's so under--
misunderstood, or you know.
>>EDEN: Absolutely.
And it was baseline for me
in my illnesses, the spleen.
>>SUE: It's the receptor
of so much spiritual energy
and integrated into the
enteric system for us.
>>EDEN: Exactly.
>>SUE: It's so beautiful.
>>EDEN: Straightening out my
energies not only got me well,
but that is how I can
teach all over the world.
Because I can do what I need to
do to get my energies flowing.
>>SUE: And everyone
that is living the life
that they are living,
they're maxing
into their own experiences.
And so these things super
helpful to get them to ground
and to integrate
and to flow again.
>>EDEN: Yes.
Every human being
on the planet needs
what you and I are teaching.
They do.
>>SUE: And you know,
it's our intention to--
>>EDEN: And we're coming
home to it more and more.
>>SUE: --to share.
Awesome.
Donna, how can people
find out more about you?
Where do they go?
>>EDEN: They can
go to our website,
learnenergymedicine.com.
They can go onto YouTube, a
YouTube, and put in, let's see,
the Wednesday Energy Minute.
Either me or one
of my kids will put
in an energy minute
of something they
can learn in one minute,
every week on Wednesday.
>>SUE: Beautiful.
Beautiful.
Thank you so much
for being here.
Your story is so important.
And it's so important what
you're doing in the world.
And we are so very blessed to
have had this conversation.
>>EDEN: Sue, this
has been so special.
You're great.
I love this.
Thank you.
>>SUE: My joy.
Donna Eden's tools
can empower all of us
to catalyze deeper balance
and healing within our bodies
and within our environments.
Energy medicine is so
important because it
is a modality that recognizes
we are truly energetic beings.
We are far more than
flesh and blood,
and we can take control
of our own true power.
I'm Dr. Sue Morter,
and thank you
for watching "Healing Matrix."